>> Scott Moss: So JWT authentication.
They're basically tokens passed to every
single request to check on the auth
server.
So if you compare it to something like
sessions and cookies on the server,
right, that's a traditional authentication
mechanism where, on the server,
the server keeps track of
sessions stored somewhere.
You have some session state
where it's in redis, in memory.
Somewhere you're keeping track of
sessions of a user that's interacted with
the database and that's how you
know they are authenticated or not.
When they're not,
you get rid of that session.
They had to create a new session.
So that's like a stateful
authentication method.
JWT is the quite opposite.
It's stateless.
The server doesn't keep track of anything.
It has no idea what's happening.
They're not keeping track of
who's asking for anything.
All the server does is create a token and
gives it to an authenticated requestor.
And from that point on,
the requestor has to send that
token on every single request.
It's stateless.
It doesn't remember what
happened last time.
You have to send it every single time,
and then it checks every single time
to see if you're authenticated.
So a JWT authentication is
basically a bearer token strategy
that allows the API to be
stateless with user auth.
What does that mean?
Bearer tokens are basically just
somebody came up with a way
that they can use tokens to authenticate
in the authorization header and
they call them bearer tokens and
JWT is just one type of those.
There is many types of bearer
authentication methods whether it's like
API keys or whatever,
JWT is just one of them.
So the reason I'm saying bearer because
you'll see that word when you're
implementing this.
>> Speaker 2: Does bearer mean
the same thing as client?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah basically,
yeah, it's basically saying your
API is allowing some untrusted
resource to access it.
Right, this happened like I said
when SaaS company started saying,
we wanna develop a API product and
allow people to integrate, so
we need a way to have untrusted
resources access our API.
Whereas everything before
then was all internal.
You only use your API for your product,
you never really let somebody else use
it so you don't have to think about
that so this is where this came from.
JWTs are created by a combination
of secrets on the API and
a payload like a user object, so
you'll have like some secret.
You'll pick out the type of
algorithm you wanna run to hash it.
And then you basically hash that payload,
or whatever algorithm you wanna run on it.
And that payload is usually, sometimes,
something to do with the user.
Something to identify about the user.
It's role, it's Id,
something to identify by it.
So after we verify this data we see
on the request, we know who it was.
Now we can do our identification part.
So we'll authenticate them,
then we'll identify them,
and we'll allow our
controllers to authorize them.
And we can do all three of those with JWT.
>> Scott Moss: Like I said, must be sent
with every single request where the API.
And then API will then try to
verify the token was created
with the expected secrets.
So once you send API a token,
the API tries to verify that token,
like, hey, was this token created
by me with these secrets?
And if it was, it will then undo
the process of tokenizing that object and
it will get back the payload that
was created to make that token.
So if you created a token off a user
object, once the token is verified,
you'll get back that same user object.
So it's a way of passing around
a stateless object, basically.
Then now, you know who the user is.
You can pass that information along across
middleware so your controllers know who
it is trying to access some type of
data and if they're authorized to do it.
So, it's completely stateless.
After a successful verification,
JWT payload is accessible in the server.
And like I said, it can be used for
authorization and identification.
Any questions on JWT stuff?
>> Speaker 2: Is the overhead considered
to be relatively small for this?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
it's actually pretty small.
Surprisingly, in MyTAN it's
easier to set up a system
to use JSON web tokens than it
is what cookies in sessions.
Store sessions you need
some type of session state.
You gotta set up Redis.
And you can even store sessions of Mongo
if you want to cuz Mongo uses in memory.
There's nothing that's
set up on the server.
Like there's literally nothing.
It's basically free.
It's not that hard at all because it's
pushing off all the work to the client.
It's like client has to store
this token somewhere, not me.
I don't care where you store it.
Just send it to me, and
I'm gonna check a header, and
then I'm gonna verify it, and that's it.
I don't have to do anything else.
So, yeah, the overhead is a lot simpler
than a stateful implementation.